it takes about 300 litres of water to
wash your car at home
the average automatic car wash uses
about a hundred and fifty but the latest
tunnel car washes are able to get the
job done with less than 10 not only does
this new style wash recycle almost all
the water it uses it's also got the
latest gear to protect your paint job
let's see how it works the tunnel car
wash is a familiar machine spray nozzles
soap soap and rinse fabric brushes do
the scrubbing hot air dries the surface
but they have a few sticky problems that
are tough to beat scuffed wheel rims
from metal guide rails swirl marks from
dirty brushes and water spots from the
rinse jump the designers of this carwash
wanted to beat all three of these
challenges and save water in the process
it all starts here where cars lineup for
the conveyor the synthetic yellow guide
rail sets up the front tires without
leaving a mark or scratching the rims
they're made with ultra-high weight
molecular plastic it's got extra long
molecules that weave together like a
pile of spaghetti with no open ends for
anything to stick to you get a slick
scuff free glide like riding on a
greased trail once on the belt a sensor
tells these rollers to pop up and push
the cars back tire now it's time to
start cleaning and that's about more
than shine
the dirt on a car actually increases
aerodynamic drag and lowers fuel
efficiency to get rid of it in a way
that doesn't damage your car is the goal
of every wash if a fabric brush picks up
and holds on to dirt it will grind it
into paint surfaces so this pre rinse is
designed to attack the dirt from every
angle
a computerized timing system and a
stream of compressed air controls the
nozzles the brains and lungs of this
machine live in a back room and it
drives almost everything with air or
hydraulic pressure not with electricity
it's cheaper to run that way and a lot
safer than mixing electricity with water
even after the first layer of dirt is
rinsed off there's still a thin layer of
hard to see stuff sticking to the paint
you need scrubbing power to get rid of
that and even dirt is fine as powder can
scratch cloth brushes on the spinning
wraparound system take care of vertical
upper surfaces while dangling cloth
washers called mitt errs sweep up the
gaps
the trick to avoiding scratches lies in
the fabric
this fuzzy polyester can't absorb
anything so there's nothing that can
scratch your paint but it does trap suds
between its fibers long enough to drop
it on the car and wipe it away next the
spinning heads kick in for the cars
lower panels these ride close to the
road and pick up a lot of grime that if
not handled properly will scratch your
car old-style spinners had hard bristles
lots of friction lots of cleaning power
but because they absorb dirt they did
lots of damage to paint so today's
tunnel washes uses soft foam material
these clothes tell brushes resist water
absorption and the dirt that comes along
with it like the millers no dirt means
no chance of scratching down here a tire
level dirt particles are at their
heaviest so the wash needs tough
bristles to get them clean the ones here
are pre-warn and only ever touch the
tires it's called a poodle brush
in a lot of car washes you'd be hitting
the dryers at this point but this
machine is about to attack performance
robbing dirt that gets trapped in cars
cooling systems and brakes dirt and bugs
trapped in the grill can affect engine
cooling so these brushes give it a
second wash they spin opposite to each
other to avoid damaging license plates
then some clever engineering attacks
dust behind your tires rims it's called
a pendulum washer when the front tire
hits this bar it carries spinning washes
along with it blasting the hubcap and
breaks clean without messing up your
rims the bar slips into this recessed
area then pops out to the back wheels to
start again just like a swinging
pendulum momentum helps out with the
final cleaning staff a small nudge from
your car pushes up one last brush before
the final rinse where a soft rain shower
takes off all the soap by design falling
droplets land gently and roll away and
that means no water spots from splashing
like you get in a regular wash
finally after 90 seconds of pounding
action it's time to get dry
these fans hit your car with intense air
pressure
when ready they slam open to blow off
the water which doesn't go to waste your
car may be done but this machine has one
more job to do take care of that water
almost all the used water flows through
these grates into underground tanks
first the dirt is filtered out then the
water is sanitized before returning to
the main storage tank up to eighty
percent of the water is reused this
tunnel car wash has put a new spin on an
old idea by delivering a near-perfect
clean while keeping cars and their
drivers reputations intact